We just spoke about the four different types of services.
We're not going to try to create our own service.
We're going to first focus on creating a node port.
Now, remember, in the last video I said that we're not going to use a node port very often unless
we are doing it for just development purposes.
So why are we making a node port first if it's not what we're going to use very often?
Well, it's really simple.
A cluster IP is used to network different pods together.
Right now we have only one port.
So if we start to create a cluster IP service, well, it's not really going to do anything because
we're not really exposing our pod to any other pods because we don't have any other pods.
Why are we not creating a load balancer?
A load balancer usually requires a decent amount of additional configuration.
So right now, the easiest service to create and the one that actually does something for right now
or actually has some effect on our cluster is a node port.
That's why we're going to create that first.
Now, all these different services are types of objects.
Remember, a deployment, a pod, a service.
These are all referred to as objects in Kubernetes.
All objects that we create are made by first creating a config file and then applying that config file
to our cluster.
So whenever we talk about creating a service or modifying a service, we are always talking about creating
a config file.
So let's get to it.
Back inside my editor, I'm going to find that K aids directory.
And inside there I'll make a new file called Post Dash CRV.
HTML CRV stands for service.
Inside of here.
We're going to write out some config that looks very similar to the config we wrote inside that deployment
file and the pod file previously.
So we will first begin with an API version of the one.
A kind of service.
A metadata that has name of post dash CRV.
The name right here is going to be the name of the service.
So if we ever try to print out all the services that are running inside of our cluster, we will see
post dash XLV.
Well then define our spec, which is going to customize how this service actually behaves.
The first thing we'll do is designate a type of node port.
So as you guess, that's going to be the type of service that we are trying to create.
We are trying to make a node port service.
After that, we're going to put down a selector with an app of posts like so.
So what is this selector thing all about?
Well, remember the entire goal of a node port?
Is to expose a set of pods to the outside world.
This service right here, this node port service, needs to know about what pores it should actually
expose.
And that's the goal of that selector thing.
Remember a selector right here of app posts?
We did something very similar to this back inside of our deployment file.
So let's go back over to deployment very quickly.
So inside of here we have that template section and the template is describing how all these different
pods should be created by the deployment.
Inside the template, we had a metadata with the labels of app posts.
So this label right here is applying a label or some kind of designation of sorts, an identifier of
sorts to the pod that is going to be created.
So by writing a selector of app posts right here, we are telling the service to try to find all the
different pods with a label of app posts and expose traffic or expose those pods to the outside world.
This whole label system in general you can really think of as being very similar to class names that
get applied to an HTML element in the browser.
So if you're familiar with HTML, well, we apply class names to elements so that we can select a broad
range or a set of elements very easily.
You should really think of this entire label and selector system as being very similar in nature.
Next up, we're going to designate some ports.
So this ports section is going to list out all the different ports that we want to expose on the target
pod.
Let me give you a quick reminder on the post service really quickly or a post application inside of
our post application directory.
I'm going to open up the indexed JS file.
At the very bottom you'll recall that we had said app listen on port 4000 right there so our application
is a listing for traffic on Port 4000.
Inside of our service.
We need to make sure that we specifically expose Port 4000 on our port.
So that's what this ports section is all about.
We're going to list out all the different ports that we want to expose on the port.
Now ports is going to be an array of entries.
And remember, we set up an array entry in YAML by putting in that little dash right there.
We'll say dash then name of those.
A protocol of TCP.
A port of 4000 and a target port of 4000.
I got some bad news.
These port properties right here are pretty darn confusing.
I'm not going to lie with you.
So what are these all about?
Well, again, if we think about our post application, it is listening for traffic on Port 4000.
So this 4000 right here is essentially saying we want to open up access on port 4000.
But real quick question, why are we listing this out twice?
What is the difference between port and target port?
Let me show you a diagram and I'm going to tell you right away this diagram is probably going to make
things a little bit more confusing.
So bear with me for just a second.
All right, here's our diagram.
So on the right hand side is our node.
Remember, the node is the actual kind of virtual machine that is running all of our Kubernetes objects.
On the left hand side is our browser.
On the far right hand side is the actual pod that is running our post container.
Now on that container we've got some application that is listing for traffic on Port 4000.
We refer to that port that is attached to the container.
So the ultimate port that we want to direct traffic to as the target port.
So target port back over here.
This is the actual port that our application is listing for traffic on.
That's where we ultimately want to send traffic to.
We are creating a node port service.
The node port service is going to have a port of its own.
So that is referred to as simply the port.
And that is what this property is right here.
So we are sending traffic to Port 4000 on a node port service and that service internally is going to
redirect that traffic over to port 4000 on the container itself.
The port and the target port do not have to be identical.
So this could be 5000 right here.
And if we make a request to port 5000 on the node port service, the service will redirect that traffic
to port 4000 on the container.
Now, are there scenarios in which we would want to have a different port and a different target port?
Maybe I'm kind of hard pressed to think of one off the top of my head.
So usually vast majority of the time you're going to have a port and a target port that are just identical.
That's along the shore of it.
So at the end of the day, this whole section right here, you can pretty much copy paste between all
of your different services that you are creating and just change that actual number to be whatever your
actual application is listing for traffic on.
So for example, if we were creating a service for our comments application, remember comments right
here, if we open up that indexed file, that application is listening for traffic on 4001.
So if we were creating a service for comments, we would pretty much copy paste the same thing right
here and just change that to 4001.
The name on here of posts is really just for logging purposes and having some name attached to it.
The name can be anything you want it to be, so we could change that to whatever.
No big difference.
I usually just name it after the service.
Okay.
So that is our service as been completed.
Now, you might notice back on this diagram over here, I had this additional port right here.
We'll talk about that in just a moment.
This video is running a little bit long, so let's take a quick pause right here.
And we're going to apply this config file to our cluster in just a moment to actually create the service.